[AGENT] Agent retry and buffering logic (#32394)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/guide/agent-retry.md

  - Network connectivity errors
  - HTTP `408` responses
  - HTTP `5xx` responses

The APM intake has the following default configurations:
  - Base backoff time: 2 seconds
  - Maximum backoff time: 10 seconds

Retry behavior and retriable status codes are not configurable.

### In-memory queues
The Agent compresses and stores failed APM payloads in memory. The Agent then drops these failed payloads when queues are full.

#### Traces
  - Configurable using `apm_config.trace_writer.queue_size`
  - Default calculation:
     - `max(1, max_memory / max_payload_size)`
     - Typically defaults to **163 payloads**

#### Stats
  - Configurable using `apm_config.stats_writer.queue_size`
  - Default calculation:
     - `max(1, max_memory / payload_size)`
     - Typically defaults to **174 payloads**

### Dual shipping
When you enable dual shipping for the APM intake, each endpoint has an independent sender and queue.

[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/main/pkg/util/backoff/backoff.go
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/main/pkg/util/backoff/backoff.go#L47
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/configuration/network/#data-buffering
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Additional payload types

Reviewer: The only additional payload type added is processes, right? So does this header here still make sense?

---
title: Agent Retry and Buffering Logic

> description: Follow this guide to learn how the Agent addresses retry strategies and backoff behavior, buffering mechanisms and limits, data drop conditions and loss scenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn about the Datadog Agent's retry strategies and backoff behavior, buffering mechanisms and limits, and data drop conditions and loss scenarios.
```

further_reading:
- link: "agent/remote_config/?tab=configurationyamlfile"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Remote Configuration"
- link: "/getting_started/site/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Getting Started with Datadog Sites"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/ddr-mitigates-cloud-provider-outages/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Datadog Disaster Recovery mitigates cloud provider outages"
---
## Overview

This guide describes the Datadog Agent's behavior when it fails to send HTTP requests to the Metrics, Logs, APM, and Processes intake endpoints.

All retry strategies use exponential backoff with randomized jitter. See the [backoff implementation][2] for details.

<div class="alert alert-info"> A failed HTTP request in this guide refers to any request that does not result in a <code>2xx</code> HTTP response. </div>

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Metrics" %}}

### Metrics retry strategy

The Agent retries failed HTTP requests using an exponential backoff strategy. The Agent uses the following default retry configurations for the metrics intake:
- Base backoff time: 2 seconds
- Maximum backoff time: [64 seconds][3]

> - Maximum backoff time is reached after 6 retries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Maximum backoff time is reached after six retries
```

(The style guide says to spell out numbers under 10, but I could see an argument for leaving this as a number, given that it's in a list with other numbers. Feel free to dismiss!)

The Agent retries failed requests for the following scenarios:
- Network timeouts

> - HTTP `4xx` responses (_see note for exceptions_)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- HTTP `4xx` responses (see note for exceptions)
```

Open to pushback! But I don't think this needs to be italicized

You can configure the default maximum in-memory buffer size using the `forwarder_retry_queue_payloads_max_size` [setting][4].

#### Restart and shutdown behavior
During restart, the Agent:
- Drops in-memory payloads
- Preserves and resends on-disk payloads

During shutdown, the Agent:
- Flushes in-flight requests
- Does not flush payloads in retry queues (both in-memory and on-disk)

[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/main/pkg/util/backoff/backoff.go#L47
[4]: /agent/configuration/network/#data-buffering
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Logs" %}}
### Logs retry strategy

The Logs Agent retries failed HTTP requests indefinitely using an exponential backoff strategy. The Agent uses the following default retry configurations for the logs intake:
  - Base backoff time: 2 seconds
  - Maximum backoff time: 120 seconds

The Agent retries failed log payloads until the logs intake endpoint becomes available.

<div class="alert alert-info"> The Logs Agent <strong>does not retry</strong> requests with status codes <code>400</code>, <code>401</code>, <code>403</code>, <code>413</code>.</div>

### Logs buffering mechanisms and limits

#### Backpressure and consumption

> The Logs Agent is designed to guarantee log delivery during transmission. When a payload fails to send, the Agent applies backpressure and stops reading from the log source. When the intake becomes available, the Agent resumes reading from the last known position.

Author: This documentation is meant for a more technical audience and we can safely assume that they understand the term backpressure. But this is a fair point!

We have a [DD doc](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/scaling_and_performance/handling_load_and_backpressure/#backpressure) that I added as [1] to covers this feedback and [this one](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/32394/changes#r2891324201)

#### Data loss scenarios
  - **Kubernetes**: log files may rotate before intake recovery
  - **Host-based systems**: files may be removed by tools such as `logrotate`

#### Log buffer limits
- HTTP logs:
    - The Agent stores up to ~20 MB of compressed payloads in memory
    - Not configurable

- TCP logs:
    - Buffer limit: 100 log lines
    - The Agent sends logs line by line

#### Registry and restart behavior
The Logs Agent maintains a registry that tracks log sources and current read offsets. The Agent flushes the registry to disk every second and reloads it when the Agent restarts. This process is not configurable.

On restart, the Agent resumes reading from the position recorded in the registry. A small number of duplicate logs may occur if the Agent sends a payload before flushing the registry.
{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title="Advanced shipping configuration" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

#### Dual shipping
When you enable dual shipping:
  - The Agent sends logs to the first available endpoint
  - The Agent drops payloads for any endpoint that fails
  - Log consumption continues as long as at least one endpoint succeeds

#### Reliable mode

> When you enable `is_reliable` for an endpoint:

Reviewer 3: We already have docs about this here: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/configuration/dual-shipping/?tab=helm#environment-variable-configuration-6

So we don't have to maintain it in 2 places, does it make sense to just link out to the other doc?

Throughput and volume
: `logs.decoded`: Total decoded logs
: `logs.processed`: Total processed logs
: `logs.sent`: Total sent logs
: `logs.bytes_sent`: Bytes sent before encoding 
: `logs.encoded_bytes_sent`: Bytes sent after encoding

Connection health
: `logs_client_http_destination__idle_ms`: Time spent idle (ms) by sender
: `logs_client_http_destination__in_use_ms`: Time spent sending (ms) by sender

Data loss & errors
: `logs_client_http_destination__payloads_dropped`: Payloads  dropped due to unrecoverable errors
: `logs_client_http_destination__send`: Send attempts by `endpoint_host` and error type

HTTP Response health
: `logs.destination_http_resp`: HTTP responses by status_code and url

Buffer capacity and utilization
: `logs_component_utilization__ratio`: Utilization ratio (0-1) by component name and instance
: `logs_component_utilization__items`: Items in buffer/queue by component name and instance
: `logs_component_utilization__bytes`: Bytes in buffer/queue by component name and instance

### Dual shipping
When dual shipping is enabled:
  - The Agent sends logs to the first available endpoint
  - If one endpoint fails, payloads to that endpoint are dropped

>   - Log consumption continues as long as at least one endpoint succeeds

Reviewer: I noticed sometimes you end a list of bullets with a period (e.g. L53), but here you don't. What's the standard?
